Add MicroProfile Health guide (#1483)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/health-guide.adoc

However, you can go right to the completed example.

Clone the Git repository: `git clone {quickstarts-clone-url}`, or download an {quickstarts-archive-url}[archive].

The solution is located in the `microprofile-health` {quickstarts-tree-url}/microprofile-health[directory].

== Creating the Maven Project

First, we need a new project. Create a new project with the following command:

[source, subs=attributes+]
----
mvn io.quarkus:quarkus-maven-plugin:0.11.0:create \
    -DprojectGroupId=org.acme \
    -DprojectArtifactId=microprofile-health \
    -Dextensions="smallrye-health"
----

This command generates a Maven project, importing the `smallrye-health` extension 
which is an implementation of the MicroProfile Health specification used in {project-name}.

== Running the health check

Importing `smallrye-health` extension directly exposes a single REST endpoint at 
`/health` of your application that can be used to run the health check procedures: 

* start {project-name} application with `mvn compile quarkus:dev`
* access `http://localhost:8080/health` endpoint through browser or by 

> `curl http://localhost:8080/health`

Author: @gsmet both bullets should be same so I will skip this comment

* `outcome` -- the overall result of the all health check procedures
* `checks` -- an array of individual checks

The general `outcome` of the health check is computed as a logical AND of all respective
health check procedures. The `checks` array is empty as we have not specified any health 
check procedure yet so let's define it.

== Creating your first health check

In this section we create the first simple health check procedure.

Create `org.acme.health.SimpleHealthCheck` class:

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.health;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.Health;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheck;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheckResponse;

import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

@Health
@ApplicationScoped
public class SimpleHealthCheck implements HealthCheck {
    
    @Override
    public HealthCheckResponse call() {
        return HealthCheckResponse.named("Simple health check").up().build();
    }
}
----

As you can see health check procedures are defined as implementations of `HealthCheck` 
interface which are defined as CDI beans with `@Health` qualifier. `HealthCheck` is 

> a functional interface which single method `call` returns `HealthCheckResponse` object 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a functional interface whose single method `call` returns a `HealthCheckResponse` object 
```
(I checked and this is what we should use even for non animated objects)

> which can be easily constructed by a provided builder fluent API as shown in the example.

Reviewer: I would simplify a bit:
```suggestion
which can be easily constructed by the fluent builder API shown in the example.
```

As we have started our {project-name} application in dev mode simply repeat the request 

> to `http://localhost:8080/health` by refersing browser window or by `curl http://localhost:8080/health`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to `http://localhost:8080/health` by refreshing your browser window or by using `curl http://localhost:8080/health`. 
```

The new health check procedure is now present in the `checks` array.

> Conratulations! You've created your first {project-name} health check application. Let's 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You've created your first {project-name} health check procedure. Let's 
```

> continue by exploring what else can be done with MicroProfile Health specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
continue by exploring what else can be done with the MicroProfile Health specification.
```

== Adding user specific data to the health check response

> In previous section we saw how to create a simple health check with only required 

Reviewer: I would say:
```suggestion
In previous section we saw how to create a simple health check with only the minimal 
```

attributes, namely, the health check name and its state (UP or DOWN). However, the 

> MicroProfile specification also provides a way how the application can supply 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MicroProfile specification also provides a way for the applications to supply 
```

> arbitrary data in form of key value pairs to the consuming end. This can be done by 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
arbitrary data in the form of key value pairs sent to the consuming end. This can be done by using the 
```

`withData(key, value)` method of the health check response builder API.

> Let's create second health check procedure `org.acme.health.DataHealthCheck`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create our second health check procedure `org.acme.health.DataHealthCheck`:
```

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.health;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.Health;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheck;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheckResponse;

import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

@Health
@ApplicationScoped
public class DataHealthCheck implements HealthCheck {

    @Override
    public HealthCheckResponse call() {
        return HealthCheckResponse.named("Health check with data")
                .up()
                .withData("foo", "fooValue")
                .withData("bar", "barValue")
                .build();
    }
}
----

> If you rerun the health check procedure again by accessing `/health` endpoint you can 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you rerun the health check procedure again by accessing the `/health` endpoint you can 
```

> see that the new health check `Health check with data` is present in `checks` array. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see that the new health check `Health check with data` is present in the `checks` array. 
```

This check contains a new attribute called `data` which is a JSON object consisting of 

> properties we have defined in our health check procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the properties we have defined in our health check procedure.
```

== Negative health check procedure

> In this section we create another health check procedure which simulates connection to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we create another health check procedure which simulates a connection to 
```

> external service provider like database. For the simplicity reasons, we only determine 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an external service provider such as a database. For simplicity reasons, we only determine 
```

import javax.inject.Inject;

@Health
@ApplicationScoped
public class DatabaseConnectionHealthCheck implements HealthCheck {
    
    @Inject
    @ConfigProperty(name = "database.up", defaultValue = "false")
    private boolean databaseUp;
    
    @Override
    public HealthCheckResponse call() {
        
        HealthCheckResponseBuilder responseBuilder = HealthCheckResponse.named("Database connection health check");

        try {
            simulateDatabaseConnectionVerification();
            responseBuilder.up();
        } catch (IllegalStateException e) {
            // cannot access the database
            responseBuilder.down()
                    .withData("error", e.getMessage());
        }

        return responseBuilder.build();
    }

    private void simulateDatabaseConnectionVerification() {
        if (!databaseUp) {
            throw new IllegalStateException("Cannot contact database");
        }
    }
}
----

If you now rerun the health check the overall `outcome` should be DOWN and you should 
see in the `checks` array the newly added `Database connection health check` which is 
down and the error message explaining why it failed.

> As we shouldn't leave this application with health check in DOWN state and because we 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we shouldn't leave this application with a health check in DOWN state and because we 
```

are running {project-name} dev mode you can add `database.up=true` in 

> `META-INF/microprofile-config.properties` and rerun the health check again -- 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/main/resources/application.properties` and rerun the health check again -- 
```
This might need a change to the quickstart itself if you included the configuration file.

it should be up again.

== Conclusion

> MicroProfile Health provides a way how can your application distribute information 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MicroProfile Health provides a way for your application to distribute information 
```

> about its healthness state to typically state whether or not it is able to function properly.

Reviewer: I would remove `typically` to simplify:
```suggestion
about its healthness state to state whether or not it is able to function properly.
```
